BookTitle	Author	BookDescription	Available	RecommendedByGutenberg Galaxy	Marshall McLuhan	"A 1962 book in which McLuhan analyzes the effects of mass media such as the printing press, European culture, and human consciousness."		Alan KayUnderstanding Media	Marshall McLuhan	"The beginnings of media theory, this book suggests that the media, instead of the content it contains, should be the focus of study."		Alan KayThe Myth of the Machine	Lewis Mumford	"Lewis Mumford shows the parallel developments between human tools and social organization mainly through language and rituals. It is a two-volume book. Technics and Human Development was published in 1967, and Pentagon of Power was published in 1970."		Alan KayTechnics and Civilization	Lewis Mumford	"Technics and Civilization is a 1934 book by American philosopher and historian of technology Lewis Mumford. The book presents the history of technology and its role in shaping and being shaped by civilizations. According to Mumford, modern technology has its roots in the Middle Ages rather than in the Industrial Revolution. It is the moral, economic, and political choices we make, not the machines we use, Mumford argues, that have produced a capitalist industrialized machine-oriented economy, whose imperfect fruits serve the majority so imperfectly."		Alan Kay"Technology, Management, and Society"	Peter Drucker	"The relationship of humans to technology and management is an ever-growing theme in today's world of ubiquitous mobile devices, constant Internet access, and omnipresent digital business tools. Fifty years ago Peter F. Drucker was already at the forefront of these questions, probing the ways in which management and technology struggle with the shared task of making us more productive. His thinking on how management and technology affect quality of life, what efficiency means versus productivity, and whether management can ever be a true science is as relevant today as it was then."		Alan KayInnovation and Entrepreneurship	Peter Drucker	"This is the first book to present innovation and entrepreneurship as a purposeful and systematic discipline that explains and analyzes the challenges and opportunities of America's new entrepreneurial economy. Superbly practical, Innovation and Entrepreneurship explains what established businesses, public service institutions, and new ventures need to know and do to succeed in today's economy."		Alan KayAmsuing Ourselves to Death	Neil Postman	"Television has conditioned us to tolerate visually entertaining material measured out in spoonfuls of time, to the detriment of rational public discourse and reasoned public affairs. In this eloquent, persuasive book, Neil Postman alerts us to the real and present dangers of this state of affairs, and offers compelling suggestions as to how to withstand the media onslaught. Before we hand over politics, education, religion, and journalism to the show business demands of the television age, we must recognize the ways in which the media shape our lives and the ways we can, in turn, shape them to serve out highest goals."		Alan KayThe Disappearance of Childhood	Neil Postman	"In 1982's The Disappearance of Childhood, Postman argues that what we define as ""childhood"" is a modern phenomenon. He defines ""childhood"" as the period from around age 7, when spoken language is usually mastered, to around age 17, when written language is mastered. Not coincidentally, these ages correspond to the typical school years."		Alan KayConscientious Objections	Neil Postman	"In a series of feisty and ultimately hopeful essays, one of America's sharpest social critics casts a shrewd eye over contemporary culture to reveal the worst -- and the best -- of our habits of discourse, tendencies in education, and obsessions with technological novelty. Readers will find themselves rethinking many of their bedrock assumptions: Should education transmit culture or defend us against it? Is technological innovation progress or a peculiarly American addiction? When everyone watches the same television programs -- and television producers don't discriminate between the audiences for Sesame Street and Dynasty -- is childhood anything more than a sentimental concept? Writing in the traditions of Orwell and H.L. Mencken, Neil Postman sends shock waves of wit and critical intelligence through the cultural wasteland."		Alan KayThe Psycology of the Child	Jean Piaget	"Piaget's influence on psychology has been profound. His pathbreaking investigations and theories of cognitive development have set child psychology moving in entirely new directions. His bold speculations have provided the inspiration for the work of others. His studies have been the subject of many books and countless articles. And, significantly, his influence has spread to other disciplines and is having an ever-growing impact on the general culture at large. Here Jean Piaget, with the assistance of his long-time collaborator Barbel Inhelder, offers a definitive presentation of the developmental psychology he has elaborated over the last forty years. This comprehensive synthesis traces each stage of the child's cognitive development, over the entire period of childhood, from infancy to adolescence."		Alan KayTo Understand is to Invent	Jean Piaget	"After a brief introduction which sets forth the condition of actual problems attending the re- cent trends in education, we will attempt to develop some thoughts on the future. These are in two areas. First, we will take as our example the teaching of sciences, in which field, it seems to us, the problems are presently the most urgent and the foreseeable reforms are the most complex. Then, drawing from those considerations, we will devote a brief section to reflections on some general questions."		Alan KayThought and Language	Lev Vygotsky	"Since it was introduced to the English-speaking world in 1962, Lev Vygotsky's highly original exploration of human mental development has become recognized as a classic foundational work of cognitive science. Vygotsky analyzes the relationship between words and consciousness, arguing that speech is social in its origins and that only as children develop does it become internalized verbal thought."		Alan KayMind in Society	Lev Vygotsky			Alan KayThe Psychology of Art	Lev Vygotsky			Alan KayTowards a Theory of Instruction	Jerome Bruner			Alan KayThe Relevance of Education	Jerome Bruner			Alan KayInstead of Education	John Holt			Alan KayTeach Your Own	John Holt			Alan KayEssays into Literacy	Frank Smith			Alan KayLateral Thinking	Edward de Bono			Alan KaySix Thinking Hats	Edward de Bono			Alan KayThe Inner Game of Tennis	Tim Gallwey			Alan KayNurtured by Love	Shinichi Suzuki			Alan KayThe Secret of Childhood	Maria Montessori			Alan KaySchool and Society	John Dewey			Alan KayFreedom and Culture	John Dewey			Alan KayAct of Creation	Arthur Koestler			Alan KayThe Ghost in the Machine	Arthur Koestler			Alan KayMindstorms	Seymour Papert			Alan KayThe Childrens' Machine	Seymour Papert			Alan KayMyths to Live By	Joseph Campbell			Alan KayThe Masks of God	Joseph Campbell			Alan KayLanguage and Species	Derek Bickerton			Alan KayThe Psychology of Literacy	Silvia Scribner & Mike Cole			Alan KayThe Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind	Julian Jaynes			Alan KayThe Interpretation of Cultures	Clifford Geertz			Alan KayBeyond Boredom and Anxiety	Mihaly Csikszentmihaly			Alan KayFlow	Mihaly Csikszentmihaly			Alan Kay"New World, New Mind"	Robert Ornstein & Paul Erlich			Alan KayMaps of the Mind	Charles Hampton-Turner			Alan KayMan and his Symbols	Carl Jung			Alan KayModern Woman in Search of a Soul	Carl Jung			Alan KaySociety of Mind	Marvin Minsky			Alan KayArchetypes	Anthony Stevens			Alan KayTimeaus	Plato			Alan KayRepublic	Plato			Alan KayHistory of Western Philosophy	Bertrand Russell			Alan Kay"Human Knowledge, Its Scope and Limits"	Bertrand Russell			Alan KaySceptical Essays	Bertrand Russell			Alan KayThe Passion of the Western Mind	Richard Tarnas			Alan KayAscent of Man	Jacob Bronowski			Alan Kay"Wisdom, Information & Wonder"	Mary Midgley			Alan KayScience as Salvation	Mary Midgley			Alan KayThe Human Condition	Hannah Arendt			Alan KayScience and Sanity	Count Korzybski			Alan KayScience is not Enough	Vannevar Bush			Alan KayWhat I Believe	Mark Booth			Alan KayTe-Tao Ching	Lao-Tzu			Alan Kay"Zen Mind, Beginners' Mind"	Shunryu Suzuki			Alan KayCivilisation	Kenneth Clark			Alan KayWhat is a Masterpiece	Kenneth Clark			Alan KayArt and Illusion	Ernst Gombrich			Alan KayEye and Brain	Richard Gregory			Alan KayVisual Thinking	Rudolk Arnheim			Alan KayNotes on a Synthesis	Christopher Alexander			Alan KayGossamer Odyssey	Morton Grosser			Alan KayVehicles	Valentino Braitenberg			Alan KayThe Living Brain	W. Gray Walter			Alan KayThe Visual Display of Quantitative Information	Edward Tufte			Alan KayEnvisioning Information	Edward Tufte			Alan KayThe Machinery of Life	David Goodsell			Alan KayThe Ring of Truth	Philip Morrison			Alan KayThe Animal in Its World	Niko Tinbergen			Alan KayRelativity Visualized	L.C. Epstein			Alan KayEngines of Creation	Eric Drexler			Alan KayThe Blind Watchmaker	Richard Dawkins			Alan KayThe Selfish Gene	Richard Dawkins			Alan KayDragons of Eden	Carl Sagan			Alan KayBroca's Brain	Carl Sagan			Alan KayNeuroethology	Ewert			Alan KayThe Character of Physical Law	Richard Feynman			Alan KayQED	Richard Feynman			Alan KayThe God Particle	Leon Lederman			Alan KayFrom Quarks to Cosmos	Leon Lederman			Alan KayThe Double Helix	James Watson			Alan KayFactal Geometry	Benoit Mandelbrot			Alan KayAn American Primer	Daniel Boorstin			Alan KayThe Americans	Daniel Boorstin			Alan KayThe Federalist Papers	"Madison, et al"			Alan KayThe Anti-Federalist Papers	Ralph Ketcham			Alan KayCommon Sense	Tom Paine			Alan KayThe Rights of Man	Tom Paine			Alan KayThe Age of Reason	Tom Paine	"The Age of Reason; Being an Investigation of True and Fabulous Theology is an influential work written by English and American political activist Thomas Paine. It follows in the tradition of eighteenth-century British deism, and challenges institutionalized religion and the legitimacy of the Bible."		"Alan Kay, Neil deGrasse Tyson"An Aristocracy of Everyone	Benjamin Barber			Alan KayThe Zero Sum Society	Lester Thurow			Alan KayEconomics Explained	Lester Thurow			Alan KayHead to Head	Lester Thurow			Alan KayMade in America	Mike Dertuozos			Alan KayBuilding Large Knowledge-Based Systems	Doug Lenat			Alan KayLisp 1.5 Manual	John McCarthy			Alan KayComputation: Finite and Infinite Machines	Marvin Minsky			Alan KayThe Architecture Machine	Nicholas Negroponte			Alan KaySoft Architecture Machines	Nicholas Negroponte			Alan KayThe Bible	Multiple Authors	A collection of texts sacred in Judaism and Christianity.		Neil deGrasse TysonThe System of the World	Isaac Newton	The third book in Newton's Philosophi_ Naturalis Principia Mathematica collection.		Neil deGrasse TysonOn the Origin of Species	Charles Darwin	"The foundation of evolutionary biology, this book introduces the scientific theory that populations evolve over the course of generations through a process of natural selection."		Neil deGrasse TysonGuliver's Travels	Jonathan Swift	"A satire on human nature and the ""travellers' tales"" literary subgenre."		Neil deGrasse TysonThe Wealth of Nations	Adam Smith	"The magnum opus of the Scottish economist and moral philosopher Adam Smith. First published in 1776, the book offers one of the world's first collected descriptions of what builds nations' wealth, and is today a fundamental work in classical economics. By reflecting upon the economics at the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, the book touches upon such broad topics as the division of labour, productivity, and free markets."		Neil deGrasse TysonThe Art of War	Sun Tzu	"The Art of War is an ancient Chinese military treatise dating from the 5th century BC. Attributed to the ancient Chinese military strategist Sun Tzu _ ""Master Sun"", the text is composed of 13 chapters, each of which is devoted to one aspect of warfare. It is commonly thought of as a definitive work on military strategy and tactics."		Neil deGrasse TysonThe Prince	Maciavelli	"The Prince is sometimes claimed to be one of the first works of modern philosophy, especially modern political philosophy, in which the effective truth is taken to be more important than any abstract ideal. It was also in direct conflict with the dominant Catholic and scholastic doctrines of the time concerning politics and ethics."		Neil deGrasse Tyson